the global network of neo-nazis that
inspired a British teenager Tutera are
turned away from being tolerant at a
young 14 ma thorn was found with
pictures of Hitler on it my name's
Daniel DeSimone II and I'm investigating
network leaders as they recruit in the
UK they not only want to form terrorist
cell structures they also want to
inspire others to go out and commit lone
actor acts of terror I speak to a family
torn apart by their violence our family
will never be the same again I mean this
this destroyed our family
and police who say right-wing extremism
is the fastest-growing terror threat I'm
really concerned with the young and it
takes the propensity towards violence
and the fascination with violence as the
extreme right stands accused of helping
to stoke racial tension in the states
I'm on the hunt for leaders of the
network who hide in the shadows online
[Music]
I am a radical National Socialist I'm
starting to write the journal I hope to
record events from now all the way to
the inevitable race war last year a
Durham teenager became the youngest
person ever convicted of planning a
terror attack in the UK he was 16 and
kept a diary of his descent into
neo-nazi extremism the white race is
being silently genocided what army right
here could be very infringing and
incriminating should have fall into the
hands of someone who doesn't follow my
ideology he was radicalized online he
wanted to help start a race rule and
thought violence was the only way to
make it happen
I just want to strike the system but
wanting means nothing i boiled down the
areas that are worth attacking here
banks railways public transport bridges
but how
he wanted to build a bomb but couldn't
get hold of the ingredients he needed
here so he turned to an online contact
in the States someone calling himself
its Harlow I put some manuals on
explosives up I found a lot of such
manuals recently although the illegality
of ammonium nitrate is regrettable that
being said my associate is gonna mail me
some they made plans on an encrypted oh
hey man yeah so I made a cash app thing
italo three three three all right I'll
get on it I just need to know one where
you want it delivered Plus how much
money you're gonna send all right well
exact it's 30 pounds and sixty four
pence $40 I'll send the address after I
get pyramid sorted payment failed and so
did the teenagers bomb-making ambitions
police who'd been tracking him online
arrested him he's now serving six and a
half years in prison his prosecution is
one of many I've covered in the last
four years I was talking to you in 2014
six percent of my casework would be
extreme right-wing it's now 10 percent
since 2017 we've disrupted 25 plots
designed to maim and kill and 8 of them
were extreme that way I still think it's
what I would describe as a toehold in
the United Kingdom to right-wing threats
what I don't want her to become is a
foothold I wanted to know more about
this dangerous world where the Durham
teenager and it's Hollow
were able to share information and form
alliances part of a new wave of
extremist groups online devoted to
terror
the young narration are like absolutely
depressed politics is a mess so you know
it almost was the perfect thought to
come in and say to young lads look
accelerate let's destroy we're angry
let's show everybody were angry Jake and
I are part of an international
collaboration of journalists trying to
expose these extremist groups media
organizations need to cooperate on this
people could die you know I mean like
it's bigger than your job you know stop
it with a scoop like they've got their
networks like now we've got yeah yeah
their chat groups have basically got
people all over the world
there's no borders states like frankly
nerds like us to be in it to be like
we'll talk to at 4:00 in the morning
like looking at the most tiniest detail
these groups want to destroy society so
they can take power ethnic minorities
women and gay people are all targets in
their ideology of chaos and destruction
they love any like social distress
anything that's like messed up in
society they love it they want to
collapse so they want to collapse yeah
they were political it's not your
granddad's Nazis I mean it's not like
you know jackboots it's not like running
around like skinheads it's very
different I would consider myself a
natural sadist
seeing weak people suffer and feel
genuine fear fills me with the type of
Glee I turned away from being tolerant
at a young 14a tore down LGBTQ posters
got suspended for it
my phone was found with pictures of
Hitler on it my hunt for the leaders in
this neo-nazi Network begins with the
person who helped turn a Duren teenager
into a would-be bomber Italo they met on
a website called fascist forge where
more than a thousand people were
registered and nothing was off-limits
like me a fascist would like find your
Mutual's you know I mean yeah and then
we want to encrypt it out when they want
to talk about who they want to kill its
Harlow was prolific online he celebrated
infamous murders hosted streams of
violent imagery and terror plot
instructions he hadn't been named in
court so all I had to go on was his
alias I mean he's quite mysterious him
yeah he seems to be quite well organized
he's good at staying under the radar we
don't know who he is and certainly
people have spoken to kind of talk about
him like he's a serious guy it was
interesting he said about its Hollow
which he's a serious person serious
meaning dangerous you just don't know
where are you gonna get to them you
don't know whether you're gonna find out
who they are that can be quite
frustrating until you get to them and
you're able to challenge them you sort
of worry would you worry about what
they're gonna do what they're going to
encourage and I think that so that
anxiety is still there
for several weeks I thought I was
looking for a man but it turns out I was
wrong meeting together clues it's Harlow
had left online I discover he's even
younger than the boy he helped her
analyze he was only 15 when the two met
we're not naming him because of his age
he lives in Connecticut and we
understand he's been visited by the FBI
[Music]
I'm really concerned with the young and
mid teens and the propensity towards
violence and the fascination with
violence you know browsing for it
looking for it and what we have found
and this is particularly gross in my
view is very young people who've never
met the person on the other end of their
chat room you grow instantly attracted
to that person develop deep
relationships very quickly online and
those relationships can be very
long-lasting but also used to incite and
instruct
the University of Pennsylvania's student
went missing a week ago the Sheriff's
Department now calling this a homicide
investigation it is such a devastating
thing to spend 20 years raising a child
to do something good with their lives to
be a good not just a good human being
but somebody that is trying to repair
the world and make it a better place
that is the type of man that blaze would
be today Blaise Bernstein went missing
in January 2018 his body was found in a
shallow grave
in a park near his family home in Orange
County California the 19 year old who
was Jewish and gay had been stabbed more
than 20 times we don't live in the same
home that we raised our children in
anymore because it was too painful for
us to stay there our family will never
be the same again I mean this did this
destroyed our family
I will never I will never get over it I
will never get over the loss of this
child
never
[Music]
22 year old Sam Woodward who'd known
blaze since high school has been charged
with his murder and is due to stand
trial soon my mother-in-law she was born
in 1936 in Romania many of her relatives
were taken to concentration camps in the
area she lived through a war and she saw
the devastation to her to her country to
her community and her grandson was
killed by a Nazi Woodward has pleaded
not guilty he's alleged to have belonged
to a neo-nazi group that's been linked
to five murders in the States called
Adam Waffen division it's connected to a
uk-based group the son and Krieg
division that was banned earlier this
year I was completely ignorant that
these things were really a thing it was
right under our noses and we had no no
idea and with the way that we have
social media now and the way that we
connect with each other through iPhones
it's so seamless now and so easy to
connect with things that are really
fringe very extreme until a few years
ago extreme right-wing groups like
National Action were very visible on
Britain's streets now the neo-nazi
movement is online and underground
hiding behind aliases to form networks
and add to their ranks
I wanted to delve deeper into this dark
world I created fake identities so I
could search online platforms and join
groups in encrypted messaging apps
undetected one platform is very very
relevant to this area is telegram the
encrypted messaging application you've
got one here which every day just
produces endless propaganda in
glorification of violence what's quite
shocking really is that this is
completely open there's no hiding these
accounts the more I follow these
accounts the more disturbing content is
recommended to me search algorithms
creating echo chambers it's easy to see
how you can get drawn in got a fake
account on Instagram and then I've been
able to follow a load of extremist
accounts I'm not looking for these they
are just simply being suggested to me
based on the things I've already
followed and really what happens in is
if somebody's genuinely making their way
in this world and perhaps becoming more
radicalized they don't even have to look
for people they are being suggested to
them and propose to them as people they
want to follow
Instagram says safety is a top-priority
and accounts pages and groups that
repeatedly violate their policies are
removed from recommendations and demoted
in search results telegram didn't
respond in this online world many roads
lead to the website fascist Forge where
extremists Italo met and befriended the
Durham teenager police interest prompted
the man behind the site to take it down
early this year
he calls himself Mattias he says he's 25
and lives in Los Angeles I want to know
who he really is I call another
journalist contact called Ally Winston
who knows the LA scene well at first I
was looking at it because it kind of
overlapped with some of the more
traditional elements in California's
gang culture a couple years back it was
more it's a different group of people
and more people who were suburban
middle-class very young
high schoolers and educated too sadly
we've seen a big uptick in domestic but
you know what we would call the mess
like terrorism from these organizations
they're gonna quite the number of
murders assaults shooting
eleven people were killed in this attack
on a synagogue in Pittsburgh in 2018
and it's not just the states I got mrs.
say the MP was shot and stabbed she died
Joe Cox murdered on the streets of a
Yorkshire town by a white supremacist it
is clear this can only be described as a
terrorist attack and in New Zealand 51
people murdered last year at two mosques
in Christchurch footage of the murders
was promoted on the fascist forged
website its founder matthias like the
killer himself hell-bent on accelerating
the destruction of society I could see
that Matthias had been promoting
something else on fascist Forge to a
militant group called the base
the FBI says its aim is to incite a race
war and unite white supremacists around
the globe
if Mattias is involved it's a big lead
in my hump to unmask him the base is
interesting they've kind of positioned
himself as an umbrella organization over
other groups in that far-right sphere
police say the three men arrested in
Georgia had trained at a camp for the
white supremacist group known as the
base in January three members of the
group were charged with plotting to kill
two anti-fascists it's not interested in
electoral politics rallies their goals
prepare for proper conflicts
earlier this year I tracked down the
founder and leader of the base in Russia
more wolf attacks the 47 year old had
been using an alias and claimed to have
worked for the US security services I
discovered his real name Reynaldo
Nazzaro
he directed the bass from his upmarket
flat in some Petersburg there's no
saving the system now so the best option
for us is to see it see a collapse I
mean it was just like a localized level
whatever degree offers some sort of
power vacuum that we can take advantage
of Nazzaro didn't know it but his
secretive organization had been
infiltrated earlier this year
covert recordings of how it recruits
were leaked to u.s. civil rights
organization the Southern Poverty Law
Center every single person was asked
about if they had training in weapons or
firearms Nazzaro wanted it to be a
real-life training ground for people to
learn guerrilla warfare tactics in
preparation for a race war it's pretty
rare that we would get a set of
recordings where dozens and dozens of
people are being asked in some really
you know deep details sometimes to
describe how they eventually became a
white nationalist or a neo-nazi
the recordings which haven't been
broadcast before reveal Reynaldo Nazzaro
trying to influence in groom would be
recruits he encourages them to read an
obscure book from the 1990s we're not
going to name it to read that because a
lot of us that is sort of a guiding
philosophy in the general idea of system
class the book promotes total war
against society and encourages racial
hatred this was really required reading
for members of the organization and it's
probably the most important text in the
neo-nazi world right now they consider
themselves the revolutionaries of the
white power movement and people in that
part of the movement not only want to
form groups in terrorist cell structures
like the base but they also want to use
their propaganda to inspire others to go
out and commit lone actor acts of terror
then I hear the base pushing recruitment
in Europe and the UK initially creating
deuterium in cells as many areas it's
possible and kind of growing from there
the UK is in place that that we think
there's a lot of potential but right now
you know we want to build our numbers up
there
all the calls follow the same pattern
applicants are vetted from a script
[Music]
callers British and says he's a teenager
same with this would be member they will
use aliases to hide their identities any
trying to join the base a teenagers time
and again the leadership discuss shaping
their ideology in other words
radicalizing he's definitely the right
direction this sounds like this is quite
amazing actually the leader basically
asked them so guys what do you think
does he match dizzi kind of meet our
standards is he a neo-nazi no but it's
very very cynical and when you strip it
all away what these people are really
doing is seeking recruits to collapse
society basically everyone who got to
this vetting stage was allowed to become
a member of the group as long as they
have the right ideological commitments
and they had a convincing radicalization
narrative we tend to talk about groups
like this as if they sort of emerged
from the ether but really what they're
drawing on is a long-standing white
power canon so these are groups who are
pushing slogans like bullets not bad
which is exactly the ideology that the
base has adopted now what about the man
who'd been promoting the base on his
website the man who calls himself
Mattias Matthias
what you think I don't have any
objections finally I'd heard his voice
do you seem confident that you'd be able
to you know balance the his obligations
and that he would have no problem
fulfilling them so yeah
he's got my thumbs up it's quite a big
moment in our hunting we thought you was
in this group because he was so heavily
promoting it online but this actually
shows it this is him on the call he's
being asked at the end of this interview
what do you think of this guy what do
you think this potential crew he sounds
arrogant he sort of sounds sort of a
conic as if he's the bat you get a kind
of a sense of who is important in the
base and Matthias pops up and not a few
of these calls so he appears to be
pretty senior too it feels like I'm
getting closer to Matthias but I still
didn't know his real name by ask Ali to
see if he can help in my humps to unmask
him there's nothing about him online
he's been really careful to cover his
tracks we've got that avatar of him from
the fascist force where you kind of see
the half skull mask over his face and
but you can make out his hair with long
hair and his eyes and then digging
around there's one image of them in
California of at the base cell in
California posing with a flag and you
can see one of them has what appears to
be that long flowing hair and you know I
put the cheese inside inside together I
blew them up I looked at them and I said
ah that looks the same like it looks
like the same guy
so that I worked through a different set
of contacts and I've come up with a name
cram the name Matthew Bukhari the
founder of fascist Forge and a senior
figure in the base a group seeking to
expand its neo-nazi Network into Europe
and the UK time to ask him some
questions
I traced him to a property in California
I can't travel to the States because of
coronavirus so I asked another
journalist to pay him a visit
we're actually on our drive over right
now my question is about his attitude is
Mathias on fascist forge and in the base
that does he understands that what
damage is caused
our team in California wait for most of
the day for the unemployed 25 year old
but he's nowhere to be seen so they
knock on his door let's go let's do it
[Music]
hi can we sleep with Matthew Bakari is
he available
they asked three times for him to come
to the door first they were told he'd
been up all night and was still asleep
then that he didn't want to speak to
anyone we could hear them talking I
don't know if Tim could yeah I could
hear them talking upstairs yeah so
definitely he wasn't asleep we knew he
wasn't asleep he just didn't want to
come to the door
Matthew Bakari aka Mathias the online
big I am who wouldn't come out of his
bedroom to answer questions about his
involvement in a global network of
neo-nazis he hasn't responded to the
letter we left for him either but
they're opening up right now
he's definitely looking
but don't be fooled into thinking these
people aren't dangerous as my
investigation and draws to an end
protests some of them violent erupt in
the u.s. following the death of George
Floyd at the hands of police online the
neo-nazi Network
I've been following are watching what's
going on closely
they certainly been paying a ton of
attention to the disturbances because of
their their particular brand of bigotry
they view them negatively there has been
talk about when some channels have seen
some talk about attacking certain
protests about using attack on these to
push forward societal collapse in Las
Vegas three men with alleged links to
the far-right of facing terror charges
for conspiring to cause destruction
during protests there
and what we've seen over the past couple
years is really that this more violent
faction of the white power movement is
gaining more adherence and there's been
sort of a change in the tenor of the
movement where violence is becoming more
and more readily accepted among members
of the movement and you know where where
there's violence you're going to find
more violence I feel like I've become
more violent recently been wanting a
lash out for about a week now go down to
the forest find the most public path
there is tie a string and throat height
between two trees I'll bring a bat wear
a mask we're cheap clothes in case I
need to get rid of them
as the neo-nazi network tries to spread
its influence across the UK Europe and
the states the extremists who recruit
and radicalize online are a real and
present danger does this the history
that we want to keep repeating itself
and do people that hate understand that
this is where it leads that they will be
standing in the ashes of the people that
they kill we can change things we have
to we don't have a choice
humanity must get rid of hate
[Music]